---
layout: lesson
title: Envisioning information
category: lesson
tag: Drawing and Representation
permalink: /drawing-representation/envisioning-information/
subtitle: This lesson introduces drawing as a medium of communication.
image: farm8.staticflickr.com/7209/6886572701_ef509012b4
slideshow:
 - caption: Japanese Statistics Report. Population census results. 1980
   embed: 120216154849-1d6946c65d7b4395af6f52ab93455bd3
   source: issuu
resources:
 - title: Delicious stack 
   subtitle: Books, lectures and more links on visual communication
   url: http://delicious.com/stacks/view/FYpRsC
   type: delicious
 - title: Brief analysis using a spreadsheet
   subtitle: Competition 2007 by Javier Burón (cc-by-sa)
   url: http://dl.dropbox.com/u/8350980/teaching%40saul/Drawing%20and%20Representation%20-%20Envisioning%20information%20-%20example%20-%20brief%20analysis.odsl
   type: dropbox
bibliography:
 - title: Josef Albers. Interaction of Color, Revised and Expanded Edition. 2006
   url: http://yalepress.yale.edu/book.asp?isbn=9780300115956
 - title: Edward Tufte. Beautiful Evidence. 2006
   url: http://www.edwardtufte.com/tufte/books_be
 - title: Scott McCloud. Understanding Comics. 1993
   url: http://scottmccloud.com/2-print/1-uc/index.html
---

Drawing is a powerful medium for shaping, testing and communicating spatial concepts. Apart from the obvious mechanical skills and practice that drawing requires there is a vast range of disciplines that could help us to improve greatly our graphic communication skills. Light physics, color theory and perception theory are some of of them and commonly grouped as visual communication studies.

This is an introduction on visual communication and it is largely based on the fantastic work of Edward Rolf Tufte, expert on information design and pioneer in the field of data visualization. The lesson also describes several techniques visual communication such as micro and macro readings, layering and Separation, and the use of color in information design.

The lesson includes real world example available for download: An architectural competition brief redesigned as a preliminary analysis tool.