---
layout: lesson
title: Collage & Photomontage
category: lesson
tag: Drawing and Representation
permalink: /drawing-representation/collage-photomontage/
subtitle: "A brief history of sampling: from the daguerrotype to the fairlight CM1"
image: farm8.staticflickr.com/7014/6797452317_0559039b8d
slideshow:
 - caption: Hamilton, R. Just what is it that makes today's homes… 1956
   embed: 120131155258-5e1ecc0d0a5f42e0a70eb8ddef5545e7
bibliography:
 - title: Lawrence Lessig. Free Culture. 2004
   url: http://www.free-culture.cc/freeculture.pdf
resources:
 - title: Youtube playlist
   subtitle: Some introductory videos on Photoshop. Layers, masks, selection tools, channels, resizing and transforming tools
   url: http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLEF1239B9DA8979AC&feature=view_all
   type: youtube
 - title: Layered image file photomontage TIFF
   subtitle: Venice Biennale 2008 by Javier Burón (cc-by-sa)
   url: http://dl.dropbox.com/u/8350980/VeniceBiennalePhotomontage.tif
   type: image
---

Collage and Photomontage have evolved continuously in the last two hundred years. In this lesson we make an introduction on the history of this medium and the technologies that have shaped it from chemistry to digital samplers. Last part explore in notion of intellectual property and authorship, and the controversial application of old copyright laws in today's digital information era.

As a real-world example, a multilayered TIFF image is included on the additional resources list. This image was produced during the design stage of the 2008 Ireland participation at the Venice Biennale.
